November 9th Community Call Blog Post (#729)
pnp/blog: content/office-add-ins-community-call/2022-11-09/index.md

---
title: "Office Add-ins developer platform community call – November 9, 2022"

> summary: "This month's community call topics include Working with Partial Documents in PowerPoint (Large files are broken up for faster downloading) by John Teichman - Principal Product Manager(Microsoft) and Onur Onder - Senior Software Engineer (Microsoft), Content control enhancements in Word Online (what’s new and in the works) by Maja Damjanić - Senior Product Manager (Microsoft) and Search Bar for Office Add-ins (Help users find their add-ins) by Adrian Wu: Senior Product Manager (Microsoft), and Q&A at end of call and in chat throughout call. The call was hosted by Preethika Kiruveedula (Microsoft)."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: "This month's community call topics include Working with Partial Documents in PowerPoint (Large files are broken up for faster downloading) by John Teichman - Principal Product Manager (Microsoft) and Onur Onder - Senior Software Engineer (Microsoft), Content control enhancements in Word Online (what’s new and in the works) by Maja Damjanić - Senior Product Manager (Microsoft) and Search Bar for Office Add-ins (Help users find their add-ins) by Adrian Wu: Senior Product Manager (Microsoft), and Q&A at end of call and in chat throughout call. The call was hosted by Preethika Kiruveedula (Microsoft)."
```

Reviewer: As this is metadata and used in SERP, I think we should shorten it so it fits in the search results and has better SEO.

---
title: "Office Add-ins developer platform community call – November 9, 2022"

> summary: "This month's community call topics include: Update the ASP.NET server in Visual Studio (update a task pane in an Excel add-in updating the sideloader project to point to an updated ASP.NET Core project) – David Chesnut (Microsoft) and Feedback request for Excel add-in auto install launch function (thoughts on making your office JS add-in discoverable and safely auto install and launch it) - Yawei Zhu (Microsoft),  Community spotlight – shines on Eric Legault (Eric Legault Consulting), and Q&A at end of call and in chat throughout call."

Reviewer 2: This is the October summary.

Author: That's totally my bad I did not realize I didn't update that. Thank you for pointing that out!

* **Working with Partial Documents in PowerPoint.** [John Teichman](https://www.linkedin.com/in/john-teichman-04b3581/), Principal Product Manager, Microsoft [Onur Onder](https://www.linkedin.com/in/onur-onder-5b315311/), Senior Software Engineer, Microsoft.
* **Content control enhancements in Word Online.** [Maja Damjanić](https://www.linkedin.com/in/majadamjanic/), Senior Product Manager, Microsoft. 
* **Search Bar for Office Add-ins.** [Adrian Wu](https://www.linkedin.com/in/adrian-tsung-han-wu-53462582/), Senior Product Manager, Microsoft.
* **Q&A.** See question and answers at end of call and in chat throughout call. [Preethika Kiruveedula](www.linkedin.com/in/preethika-kiruveedula-529b7a14), Product Manager, Microsoft.

{{< youtube 6hC4YJLlfi0 >}}

## View video segments

* Update - Working with Partial Documents in PowerPoint [00:47](https://youtu.be/6hC4YJLlfi0?t=472)
* Update - Content control enhancements in Word Online [10:18] (https://youtu.be/6hC4YJLlfi0?t=618)
* Announcing - Search Bar for Office Add-ins [18:31] (https://youtu.be/6hC4YJLlfi0?t=1111)
* Q&A [23:13](https://youtu.be/6hC4YJLlfi0?t=1393)

## Topic summaries

> * **Working with Partial Documents in PowerPoint.** Pertains to large files laden with graphics and videos are broken up for faster downloading.  What and why Partial docs? Capabilities explained, implications for Add-ins developers working with Partial Documents and presentations documentation, error handling, Impacted APIs – Com/VBA and Office.js API calls that may return errors. Soliciting your feedback please. Mid-next year release at the earliest.    

Reviewer 2: This asks for feedback. Is there a link or info on how folks can do that?

Author: I didn't get any form from John or Onur

Author: I think they were just asking for feedback from the audience of the community call so I will remove that line for the blog post.

> * **Content control enhancements in Word Online.** Content controls are being enhanced – what’s new and in the works. Content controls in Word (supported types since 2013 and creating via UI and programmatically),and in Word Online (since Summer 2022- viewing, editing and programmatic access with RichText in Office.js). What’s new and in the pipeline.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Content control enhancements in Word Online.** This presentation covers new and upcoming enhancements to content controls in Word including those created via UI and programmatically (Word for Windows) and those created with Rich Text in Office.js (Word Online). What’s new and in the pipeline.  
```

> * **Search Bar for Office Add-ins.** Helping users find their add-ins. Users can search for installed add-ins from the search box (TellMe) on the top of the Word, Excel and PowerPoint documents. Supports user installed add-ins and admin deployed add-ins. Configure a default task pane if your add-in only has only one task pane or had designated a default task pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Search Bar for Office Add-ins.** Learn how users can use TellMe to search for installed add-ins from the search box in Word, Excel and PowerPoint documents. Supports user installed add-ins and admin deployed add-ins. 
```
Please feel free to edit if I cut too much!

  
## Call to action
* Share your feedback on how we can provide you with a better Office Add-ins development experience. Join a community panel. 
    * [Outlook add-ins panel](https://ux.microsoft.com/Panel/OutlookAddinDeveloper)
    * [Excel add-ins panel](https://ux.microsoft.com/Panel/ExcelAddinDeveloper)
    * [Word add-ins panel](https://ux.microsoft.com/Panel/WordAddinDeveloper)
    * [PowerPoint add-ins panel](https://ux.microsoft.com/Panel/PowerPointAddinDeveloper)
    * [Samples and docs](https://ux.microsoft.com/Panel/OfficeAddinImproveSamplesDocs)
* [Sign up for the PnP Recognition Program](https://pnp.github.io/recognitionprogram/) and earn contribution badges.
* Follow us on Twitter to see call agendas, important updates, and release announcements. 
    * [@microsoft365dev](https://twitter.com/microsoft365dev)
    * [@m365pnp](https://twitter.com/m365pnp)
* Register for the [Microsoft 365 Developer Program](https://aka.ms/m365/devprogram) and get a free E5 developer tenant with instant availability and other assets.
* [Join the next Office Add-ins community call](https://aka.ms/officeaddinscommunitycall) on December 14th at 8:00 AM Pacific Time.

> * Please complete the [Office add-in developing experience survey](https://forms.office.com/r/wmzCgccbPa)

Reviewer 2: This link goes to a 2021 form. Is this the correct link?

Author: which link are you referring too?

Author: hmm ok, I think I'm going to go ahead and delete this survey for now. Cause it seems to have been something for the December 2021 community call

## Q&A (Question & Answers)

> **We'd also love an update on https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js/issues/2955 - Outlook OWA UI has been updated for some users and there is no way for them to open add-ins in compose mode. Major issue.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We'd love an update on [GitHub issue](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js/issues/2955): Outlook OWA UI has been updated for some users and there is no way for them to open add-ins in compose mode. Major issue.**
```

We've assigned the issue to the Outlook team for further investigation. 

> **Hi, anyone working on Outlook add-in - SSO with .Net Core - adding Authentication in Middleware. and adding redirect URI? This works in Outlook windows app but fails in Outlook from browser.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Hi, anyone working on Outlook add-in - SSO with .NET Core - adding Authentication in Middleware and adding redirect URI? This works in Outlook on Windows but fails in Outlook on the web.**
```

> We usually debug SSO issues with the browser dev tools. If you haven't already, please submit a GitHub issue, so that we can assist you further.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We usually debug SSO issues with the browser dev tools. If you haven't already, please submit a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js/issues), so that we can assist you further.
```

> **Any one working on Excel add in pivot table function and connect with external data source mainly cube in pivot table inside add-in?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Any one working on Excel add-in pivot table function and connect with external data source mainly cube in pivot table inside add-in?**
```

> If you're experiencing issues with developing an Excel add-in, please submit a GitHub issue, so that we can assist you further.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're experiencing issues with developing an Excel add-in, please submit a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js/issues), so that we can assist you further.
```

**For PowerPoint, it would be interesting if the app asked the user if they wanted to compress the embedded video. I have done this on my decks, but it is kind of buried for the average user.**

We will pass on this feedback to the team.

**Why rich text for Word Online content controls? Plain text is so much more useful for integration because there's no formatting jargon**

> Support for PlainText content controls editing will  roll out soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are planning to roll out support for Plain Text content controls editing soon.
```

**To be clear, we are still not able to create the Content Controls in Word Online?** 

That's correct. Creating content controls in Word on the web still isn't possible. They need to be created with via the Word desktop client or the JS API.

**Has anyone had challenges with Outlook Add-ins when using the "Microsoft 365 Features - Shared calendar improvements" setting in Outlook Windows Desktop? Our Outlook add-in sets extended properties with Graph (public and private) for meetings on shared/delegate calendars.When the setting is on, the meeting won't send. When we turn it off, everything works as expected.**

> We're sorry to hear you're experiencing challenges with developing your Outlook add-in. If you haven't already, please submit a GitHub issue, so that we can assist you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We're sorry to hear you're experiencing challenges with developing your Outlook add-in. If you haven't already, please submit a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js/issues), so that we can assist you.
```

> **How do you match the office add-in to the user search phrase in the new search functionality?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**How do you match the Office Add-in to the user search phrase in the new search functionality?**
```

We continuously improve the matching logic, but the most effective way today would be to match the add-in titles directly.

> **Would the search work only by the add-in name, or use some additional descriptions?**

Reviewer: Consider merging this with the previous question since the answer is identical.

We continuously improve the matching logic, but the most effective way today would be to match the add-in titles directly.

**How about data-bound content controls?**

> This is one of the things we are considering. We would love to hear more of your use case via aka.ms/WordAPI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is one of the things we are considering. We would love to hear more of your use case via https://aka.ms/WordAPI.
```

## Additional Resources

> * **Working with Partial Documents in PowerPoint**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Working with partial documents in PowerPoint**
```
